README.md, before:

# 👋🏻 Hi! I'm Samantha Nadler (she/her)!
### 👩🏻‍💻 Junior at Hofstra University studying Computer Science and Mathematics <br> ⚾ Aspiring Sports Data Scientist
Welcome to my portfolio! Here I will share some awesome projects in data analysis, data visualization, and machine learning!

I've been interested in data science since my senior year of high school, after I declared a "double major" in computer science and mathematics (it's really a singular academic program that behaves like a double major). I'm always teaching myself new skills in data science to build on my foundational knowledge from the [Break Through Tech AI Program](https://www.breakthroughtech.org/), which I participated in during the 2024-2025 school year. I'd love to work in sports analytics and use my data science skills on one of my favorite teams!

I hope you enjoy my projects and consider putting me on your data science or machine learning radar!

## 🛠️ Skill Set
- **Programming Languages:** Python, R, Java, JavaScript, C++, SQL, HTML/CSS, LaTeX
- **Tools and Technologies:** Git/GitHub, Linux, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio Code, RStudio, Microsoft Office, Power BI
- **Relevant Coursework:** Probability and Statistics, Statistical Learning, Linear Algebra, Text Mining, Foundations of Data Science (Spring 2026), Software Engineering (Spring 2026)

## What I'm Currently Working On
### ☠️ Investigating the Transformation and Degradation of 6PPD in Nature
Language(s) used: R<br>
Software(s) used: RStudio

This data analysis is part of an interdisciplinary research project among Hofstra's engineering, chemistry, and computer science departments and investigates how 6PPD (tire antioxidant) transforms and degrades in nature. One of its transformation products, 6PPD-Q, has been known to be incredibly toxic to aquatic organisms. Using a mass spectrometer to analyze results enables us to measure the concentration of chemical compounds using their masses. One exciting part of this project is trying to find new products that have not been seen in the past, and we are planning to use R's patRoon package to analyze these results. This research project will be on applying this R package to our research and is inspired by [Helmus et al.'s (2025)](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.est.4c09121) journal article "Comprehensive Mass Spectrometry Workflows to Systematically Elucidate Transformation Processes of Organic Micropollutants: A Case Study on the Photodegradation of Four Pharmaceuticals".

## Other Projects

### 🐍 Python Projects
- [Does the Home Run Derby Affect a Batter's Swing?](https://github.com/sknadler/hrd-analysis)
- Critical Vulnerabilities in Machine Learning Classifiers Susceptible to Adversarial Doppelganger Attacks
- [Analyzing Player Performance of MLB Silver Slugger Award Finalists](https://github.com/sknadler/batting-trends-in-silver-sluggers)
- [Predicting Auto Claims Severity](https://github.com/Allstate1A-BTT/Allstate1A-Studio-Project) (with Allstate)
- [Understanding U.S. Wage Gaps with Python Machine Learning Models](https://github.com/sknadler/income-prediction)
- [Model Selection for Logistic Regression: Airbnb Superhost Classificiation](https://github.com/sknadler/airbnb-superhost-classification)

### ®️ R Projects
- [Identifying Patient Features Predictive of Emergency Department Use](https://github.com/sknadler/math-138-harmony-healthcare) (with Harmony Healthcare Long Island)
- [Understanding Perception of VR Technology in the Classroom](https://github.com/sknadler/vr-usage-in-education)

## Contact Me!
- 📧 Email: [nadler.2004@gmail.com](mailto:nadler.2004@gmail.com)
- 🔗 LinkedIn: [linkedin.com/in/sknadler](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sknadler)

<!---
samanthanadler/samanthanadler is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->

Commit message:

Update README with current projects
Added details about current projects including multilabel classification for movie genres and investigation of 6PPD degradation.

README.md, after:

# 👋🏻 Hi! I'm Samantha Nadler (she/her)!
### 👩🏻‍💻 Junior at Hofstra University studying Computer Science and Mathematics <br> ⚾ Aspiring Sports Data Scientist
Welcome to my portfolio! Here I will share some awesome projects in data analysis, data visualization, and machine learning!

I've been interested in data science since my senior year of high school, after I declared a "double major" in computer science and mathematics (it's really a singular academic program that behaves like a double major). I'm always teaching myself new skills in data science to build on my foundational knowledge from the [Break Through Tech AI Program](https://www.breakthroughtech.org/), which I participated in during the 2024-2025 school year. I'd love to work in sports analytics and use my data science skills on one of my favorite teams!

I hope you enjoy my projects and consider putting me on your data science or machine learning radar!

## 🛠️ Skill Set
- **Programming Languages:** Python, R, Java, JavaScript, C++, SQL, HTML/CSS, LaTeX
- **Tools and Technologies:** Git/GitHub, Linux, Jupyter Notebook, Visual Studio Code, RStudio, Microsoft Office, Power BI
- **Relevant Coursework:** Probability and Statistics, Statistical Learning, Linear Algebra, Text Mining, Foundations of Data Science (Spring 2026), Software Engineering (Spring 2026)

## What I'm Currently Working On

### 🎬 Multilabel Classification for Movie Genres
Languages(s) used: Python<br>
Software(s) used: Jupyter Notebook

Streaming services use genre categorizations to organize movies and recommend new movies to users based on their watch history, but genre classification is not rigid, as a single movie can pull from various genres and be categorized into several distinct genres on streaming services. This project considers both traditional machine learning and deep learning techniques to classify a movie into at least one genre category. After using a multi-label binarizer to convert lists of genres as the training label as a singular output for each movie, I built a naive Bayes model from scratch and also implemented a BERT model from HuggingFace to calculate upwards to a 0.660 F1 score.

### ☠️ Investigating the Transformation and Degradation of 6PPD in Nature
Language(s) used: R<br>
Software(s) used: RStudio

This data analysis is part of an interdisciplinary research project among Hofstra's engineering, chemistry, and computer science departments and investigates how 6PPD (tire antioxidant) transforms and degrades in nature. One of its transformation products, 6PPD-Q, has been known to be incredibly toxic to aquatic organisms. Using a mass spectrometer to analyze results enables us to measure the concentration of chemical compounds using their masses. One exciting part of this project is trying to find new products that have not been seen in the past, and we are planning to use R's patRoon package to analyze these results. This research project will be on applying this R package to our research and is inspired by [Helmus et al.'s (2025)](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.est.4c09121) journal article "Comprehensive Mass Spectrometry Workflows to Systematically Elucidate Transformation Processes of Organic Micropollutants: A Case Study on the Photodegradation of Four Pharmaceuticals".

## Other Projects

### 🐍 Python Projects
- [Does the Home Run Derby Affect a Batter's Swing?](https://github.com/sknadler/hrd-analysis)
- Critical Vulnerabilities in Machine Learning Classifiers Susceptible to Adversarial Doppelganger Attacks
- [Analyzing Player Performance of MLB Silver Slugger Award Finalists](https://github.com/sknadler/batting-trends-in-silver-sluggers)
- [Predicting Auto Claims Severity](https://github.com/Allstate1A-BTT/Allstate1A-Studio-Project) (with Allstate)
- [Understanding U.S. Wage Gaps with Python Machine Learning Models](https://github.com/sknadler/income-prediction)
- [Model Selection for Logistic Regression: Airbnb Superhost Classificiation](https://github.com/sknadler/airbnb-superhost-classification)

### ®️ R Projects
- [Identifying Patient Features Predictive of Emergency Department Use](https://github.com/sknadler/math-138-harmony-healthcare) (with Harmony Healthcare Long Island)
- [Understanding Perception of VR Technology in the Classroom](https://github.com/sknadler/vr-usage-in-education)

## Contact Me!
- 📧 Email: [nadler.2004@gmail.com](mailto:nadler.2004@gmail.com)
- 🔗 LinkedIn: [linkedin.com/in/sknadler](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sknadler)

<!---
samanthanadler/samanthanadler is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
